## Project: Data Lake

### Introduction
A music streaming startup, Sparkify, has grown their user base and song database even more and want to move their data warehouse to a data lake. Their data resides in S3, in a directory of JSON logs on user activity on the app, as well as a directory with JSON metadata on the songs in their app.

An ETL pipeline is build that extracts application data from S3, processes them using Spark, and loads the data back into S3 as a set of dimensional tables. This will allow their analytics team to continue finding insights in what songs their users are listening to.

### Project Description
An ETL pipeline is build for a data lake hosted on S3. In this project data is loaded from S3, processed into analytics tables using Spark, and loaded back into S3.

### Project Datasets
There are two datasets that reside in S3. Here are the S3 links for each:

*Song data: s3://udacity-dend/song_data*

*Log data: s3://udacity-dend/log_data*

**Song Dataset**

The first dataset is a subset of real data from the Million Song Dataset. Each file is in JSON format and contains metadata about a song and the artist of that song. The files are partitioned by the first three letters of each song's track ID. For example, here are filepaths to two files in this dataset.

```
song_data/A/B/C/TRABCEI128F424C983.json
song_data/A/A/B/TRAABJL12903CDCF1A.json
```


And below is an example of what a single song file, TRAABJL12903CDCF1A.json, looks like.

```
{"num_songs": 1, "artist_id": "ARJIE2Y1187B994AB7", "artist_latitude": null, "artist_longitude": null, "artist_location": "", "artist_name": "Line Renaud", "song_id": "SOUPIRU12A6D4FA1E1", "title": "Der Kleine Dompfaff", "duration": 152.92036, "year": 0}
```

**Log Dataset**

The second dataset consists of log files in JSON format generated by this event simulator based on the songs in the dataset above. These simulate app activity logs from an imaginary music streaming app based on configuration settings.

The log files in the dataset you'll be working with are partitioned by year and month. For example, here are filepaths to two files in this dataset.

```
log_data/2018/11/2018-11-12-events.json
log_data/2018/11/2018-11-13-events.json
```

And below is an example of what the data in a log file, 2018-11-12-events.json, looks like.

```
{"artist":"Pavement", "auth":"Logged In", "firstName":"Sylvie", "gender", "F", "itemInSession":0, "lastName":"Cruz", "length":99.16036, "level":"free", "location":"Klamath Falls, OR", "method":"PUT", "page":"NextSong", "registration":"1.541078e+12", "sessionId":345, "song":"Mercy:The Laundromat", "status":200, "ts":1541990258796, "userAgent":"Mozilla/5.0(Macintosh; Intel Mac OS X 10_9_4...)", "userId":10}
```

### Schema for Song Play Analysis

A Star Schema would be required for optimized queries on song play queries

**Fact Table:**

* songplays - records in event data associated with song plays i.e. records with page NextSong songplay_id, start_time, user_id, level, song_id, artist_id, session_id, location, user_agent

**Dimension Tables:**

* users - users in the app user_id, first_name, last_name, gender, level

* songs - songs in music database song_id, title, artist_id, year, duration

* artists - artists in music database artist_id, name, location, lattitude, longitude

* time - timestamps of records in songplays broken down into specific units start_time, hour, day, week, month, year, weekday

### Project

Project includes three files:

1. dwh.cfg : contains AWS Credentials.
2. etl.py : reads data from S3, processes that data using Spark and writes them back to S3
3. README.md : In this file is detailed information about the project and files.

### ETL Pipeline

1. Load the credentials from dl.cfg
2. Load the Data which are in JSON Files(Song Data and Log Data)
3. After loading the JSON Files from S3 4.Use Spark process this JSON files and then generate a set of Fact and Dimension Tables
4. Load back these dimensional process to S3

### How to Run

* open Terminal and execute etl file using below command python etl.py

